README.md, before:


# ReactiveUI.Routing

## Goals
- Cross platform logic.
- Strong support for page/fragment/modal navigation.
- Async all the way.
- Support suspend/resume.
- Minimize boilerplate code + Maximize readability.

With these core ideas in mind, here are the conclusions that I have drawn.

## Proposal

Note that this proposal is a work in progress, subject to change. The end goal is to create a solution that solves all of the potential issues that can then be implemented.

### Overview

In these improvements, we take inspiration from MvvmCross for presenter-based view composition while providing our own solution to navigation that does not conflate the two concepts.

### What is navigation?

From Google:

**Navigation** is defined as:

1.  The process or activity of accurately ascertaining one's position and planning and following a route.
2.  The passage of ships.

So, when we talk about navigation, we are talking about "going" to something. This is important, because it helps us understand the behavior of navigation. 

*In particular, we know that when we navigate to something, we want to be able to navigate back.*

### What is presentation?

From Google:

**Presentation** is defined as:

1. The proffering or giving of something to someone, especially as part of a formal ceremony.
	- The manner or style in which something is given, offered, or displayed.
	- A formal introduction of someone, especially at court.
	- The action or right of formally proposing a candidate for a church benefice or other position.
	- A demonstration or display of a product or idea.

So, when we talk about presentation, we are talking about "showing" something. 

*When we present something, we want it to show up on screen.*

### A Dilemma

With the above definitions fresh in our minds, we can see that there are two different concepts at play. Navigation, which helps us get from place to place, and presentation, which helps us show things.

Often, when a developer writes:

```csharp
router.Navigate.ExecuteAsync(new MyViewModel());
```

they expect *both* things to happen.

As such, we have a predicament. We want to give the developer both what they expect and the option to choose. Therefore, we have two options:

1. Keep the existing API and work around it.
2. Introduce a new API that separates the two concepts.

I propose that we follow the 2nd option. We introduce a new API that resolves most, if not all, of the issues that exist with the current solution.

With this new API, we need a good model of what is happening. This model is split into three major parts:

1. `NavigationState`
2. `PresentationState`
3. `Router`

### Navigation State

The navigation state manages how view models are moved between and how the back button affects that movement. Quite simply, this object in in charge of two things:

1. Recording transitions between view models.
2. (Re)storing view model state.

It might look something like this:

```csharp
sealed class ViewModelTransition 
{
	public Type Type { get; }
	public object Params { get; }
	    
    public ViewTransition(
	    Type type, 
	    object vmParams)
    {
        Type = type;
		Params = vmParams;
    }
}

interface INavigationState : IActivateViewModels
{
	IReadOnlyCollection<ViewModelTransition> TransitionStack { get; }
	Task PushAsync(ViewModelTransition transition);
	Task PopAsync();
	Task GroupAsync(Func<Task> grouping);
	IObservable<ViewModelTransition> Transitioned { get; }
}
```

The `IActivateViewModels` interface is a simple interface that signifies that an object can kick off the view model activation process.

### Presentation State

The presentation state manages which view models are being presented and how they are being presented.
It in turn also has three primary functions:

1. Discovering views for presented view models.
2. Creating and activating discovered views.
3. Disposing views.

The presentation state has no thing to do with storing view model state, only view state. 
In this respect, whenever the app is suspended, the router will need to kick off the correct view.

It might look something like this:

```csharp
interface IPresentationState
{
	Task<IDisposable> PresentAsync(object viewModel, object hint);
}
```

### Router
The router is in charge of managing the tight dance between `NavigationState` and `PresentationState`. In particular, it is able to resolve requests for `Show(vm)` and pipe them to either `NavigationState`, `PresentationState`, or both. In most cases, the router should obey custom rules which can be defined by a `RouterBuilder`.

```csharp
interface IRouter
{
	Task ShowAsync(Type viewModel, object vmParams);
}

interface IRouterBuilder
{
	IRouterBuilder When(Type vmType, Func<IRouteBuilder, IRouteBuilder> buildRoute);
	IRouter Build();

	// <extension> same as -> When(typeof(TViewModel))
	IRouterBuilder When<TViewModel>(Func<IRouteBuilder, IRouteBuilder> buildRoute);
	
	// <extension> same as -> When<TViewModel(route => route.Present());
	IRouteBuilder When<TViewModel>();
}

interface IRouteBuilder
{
	IRouteBuilder Present(Type viewType);
	IRouteBuilder NavigateBack(Func<object, bool> goBackWhile);
	IRouteBuilder Navigate();

	// <extension> same as -> Present(typeof(TView))
	IRouteBuilder Present<TView>();
	
    // <extension> same as -> NavigateBack(vm => vm.GetType() != typeof(TParentViewModel))
	IRouteBuilder NavigateFrom<TParentViewModel>();
}
```

### Use Case #1 - Share Navigation

Suppose an app allows users to share photos. It has three primary pages: 

- The photo list
- The share page
- And the details page.

Additionally, there are five primary forms of navigation between the pages:

- The "Share" button on the photo list which takes the user to the share page.
- The "Upload" button on the share page which takes the user to the new photo's detail page.
- A photo on the photo list which takes the user to the photo's detail page.
- The back button on the share page which takes the user back to the list page.
- The back button on the detail page which also takes the user back to the list page.

In short, the navigation graph looks like this:

                     +--------------+
                     |              |
           +---------+     List     +---------+
           |         |              |         |
           |         +--------------+         |
           |                                  |
           |                                  |
           |                                  |
           |                                  |
    +------v------+                    +------v------+
    |             |         X          |             |
    |    Share    +---------X---------->    Detail   |
    |             |         X          |             |
    +-------------+                    +-------------+

This is what the router helps with. The route definitions for the above app would look something like this:

```csharp
IRouteBuilder builder = ...;

// When we show the ListViewModel,
// present the ListView and add the view model to the navigation stack.
builder.When<ListViewModel>(route => 
			route.Present<ListView>().Navigate())

// When we show the DetailViewModel,
// present the DetailView and add the view model to the navigation stack, removing
// all other view models from it until the ListViewModel is the parent.
	   .When<DetailViewModel>(route => 
			route.Present<DetailView>().NavigateFrom<ListViewModel>())

// When we show the ShareViewModel,
// present the ShareView and add the view model to the navigation stack.
	   .When<ShareViewModel>(route =>
		    route.Present<ShareView>().Navigate());

IRouter router = builder.Build();
// ...
await router.ShowAsync(typeof(ListViewModel), null);
```

Oh, look! We just implemented declarative routing! We've defined the conditions we want for our navigation and presentation scheme, and now they just work.

Commit message:

Add Contributing Section to README

README.md, after:


# ReactiveUI.Routing

## Goals
- Cross platform logic.
- Strong support for page/fragment/modal navigation.
- Async all the way.
- Support suspend/resume.
- Minimize boilerplate code + Maximize readability.

With these core ideas in mind, here are the conclusions that I have drawn.

## Proposal

Note that this proposal is a work in progress, subject to change. The end goal is to create a solution that solves all of the potential issues that can then be implemented.

### Contributing

If you have thoughts or suggestions, raise an issue that discusses what is on your mind. From there, we can then create a pull request that brings them into the proposal.

### Overview

In these improvements, we take inspiration from MvvmCross for presenter-based view composition while providing our own solution to navigation that does not conflate the two concepts.

### What is navigation?

From Google:

**Navigation** is defined as:

1.  The process or activity of accurately ascertaining one's position and planning and following a route.
2.  The passage of ships.

So, when we talk about navigation, we are talking about "going" to something. This is important, because it helps us understand the behavior of navigation. 

*In particular, we know that when we navigate to something, we want to be able to navigate back.*

### What is presentation?

From Google:

**Presentation** is defined as:

1. The proffering or giving of something to someone, especially as part of a formal ceremony.
	- The manner or style in which something is given, offered, or displayed.
	- A formal introduction of someone, especially at court.
	- The action or right of formally proposing a candidate for a church benefice or other position.
	- A demonstration or display of a product or idea.

So, when we talk about presentation, we are talking about "showing" something. 

*When we present something, we want it to show up on screen.*

### A Dilemma

With the above definitions fresh in our minds, we can see that there are two different concepts at play. Navigation, which helps us get from place to place, and presentation, which helps us show things.

Often, when a developer writes:

```csharp
router.Navigate.ExecuteAsync(new MyViewModel());
```

they expect *both* things to happen.

As such, we have a predicament. We want to give the developer both what they expect and the option to choose. Therefore, we have two options:

1. Keep the existing API and work around it.
2. Introduce a new API that separates the two concepts.

I propose that we follow the 2nd option. We introduce a new API that resolves most, if not all, of the issues that exist with the current solution.

With this new API, we need a good model of what is happening. This model is split into three major parts:

1. `NavigationState`
2. `PresentationState`
3. `Router`

### Navigation State

The navigation state manages how view models are moved between and how the back button affects that movement. Quite simply, this object in in charge of two things:

1. Recording transitions between view models.
2. (Re)storing view model state.

It might look something like this:

```csharp
sealed class ViewModelTransition 
{
	public Type Type { get; }
	public object Params { get; }
	    
    public ViewTransition(
	    Type type, 
	    object vmParams)
    {
        Type = type;
		Params = vmParams;
    }
}

interface INavigationState : IActivateViewModels
{
	IReadOnlyCollection<ViewModelTransition> TransitionStack { get; }
	Task PushAsync(ViewModelTransition transition);
	Task PopAsync();
	Task GroupAsync(Func<Task> grouping);
	IObservable<ViewModelTransition> Transitioned { get; }
}
```

The `IActivateViewModels` interface is a simple interface that signifies that an object can kick off the view model activation process.

### Presentation State

The presentation state manages which view models are being presented and how they are being presented.
It in turn also has three primary functions:

1. Discovering views for presented view models.
2. Creating and activating discovered views.
3. Disposing views.

The presentation state has no thing to do with storing view model state, only view state. 
In this respect, whenever the app is suspended, the router will need to kick off the correct view.

It might look something like this:

```csharp
interface IPresentationState
{
	Task<IDisposable> PresentAsync(object viewModel, object hint);
}
```

### Router
The router is in charge of managing the tight dance between `NavigationState` and `PresentationState`. In particular, it is able to resolve requests for `Show(vm)` and pipe them to either `NavigationState`, `PresentationState`, or both. In most cases, the router should obey custom rules which can be defined by a `RouterBuilder`.

```csharp
interface IRouter
{
	Task ShowAsync(Type viewModel, object vmParams);
}

interface IRouterBuilder
{
	IRouterBuilder When(Type vmType, Func<IRouteBuilder, IRouteBuilder> buildRoute);
	IRouter Build();

	// <extension> same as -> When(typeof(TViewModel))
	IRouterBuilder When<TViewModel>(Func<IRouteBuilder, IRouteBuilder> buildRoute);
	
	// <extension> same as -> When<TViewModel(route => route.Present());
	IRouteBuilder When<TViewModel>();
}

interface IRouteBuilder
{
	IRouteBuilder Present(Type viewType);
	IRouteBuilder NavigateBack(Func<object, bool> goBackWhile);
	IRouteBuilder Navigate();

	// <extension> same as -> Present(typeof(TView))
	IRouteBuilder Present<TView>();
	
    // <extension> same as -> NavigateBack(vm => vm.GetType() != typeof(TParentViewModel))
	IRouteBuilder NavigateFrom<TParentViewModel>();
}
```

### Use Case #1 - Share Navigation

Suppose an app allows users to share photos. It has three primary pages: 

- The photo list
- The share page
- And the details page.

Additionally, there are five primary forms of navigation between the pages:

- The "Share" button on the photo list which takes the user to the share page.
- The "Upload" button on the share page which takes the user to the new photo's detail page.
- A photo on the photo list which takes the user to the photo's detail page.
- The back button on the share page which takes the user back to the list page.
- The back button on the detail page which also takes the user back to the list page.

In short, the navigation graph looks like this:

                     +--------------+
                     |              |
           +---------+     List     +---------+
           |         |              |         |
           |         +--------------+         |
           |                                  |
           |                                  |
           |                                  |
           |                                  |
    +------v------+                    +------v------+
    |             |         X          |             |
    |    Share    +---------X---------->    Detail   |
    |             |         X          |             |
    +-------------+                    +-------------+

This is what the router helps with. The route definitions for the above app would look something like this:

```csharp
IRouteBuilder builder = ...;

// When we show the ListViewModel,
// present the ListView and add the view model to the navigation stack.
builder.When<ListViewModel>(route => 
			route.Present<ListView>().Navigate())

// When we show the DetailViewModel,
// present the DetailView and add the view model to the navigation stack, removing
// all other view models from it until the ListViewModel is the parent.
	   .When<DetailViewModel>(route => 
			route.Present<DetailView>().NavigateFrom<ListViewModel>())

// When we show the ShareViewModel,
// present the ShareView and add the view model to the navigation stack.
	   .When<ShareViewModel>(route =>
		    route.Present<ShareView>().Navigate());

IRouter router = builder.Build();
// ...
await router.ShowAsync(typeof(ListViewModel), null);
```

Oh, look! We just implemented declarative routing! We've defined the conditions we want for our navigation and presentation scheme, and now they just work.
